.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2007 Marian Vittek, Bratislava.
.TH XREFRC 5 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
 .xrefrc \- file containing xref options.
.SH DESCRIPTION

The '.xrefrc' file ('_xrefrc' under MS-DOS) is configuration 
file for the xref cross-referencing
tool. It should be placed in user's home directory from where it is
read at each xref invocation (under MS-DOS if the %HOME% environment
variable is not set, this file should be placed in the C:\\ root folder).
The file contains xref command
line switches used for processing your projects, 
mainly information about source files, 
include directories ( '-I' 
option )
and  default  macro-definitions ( '-D' option). 
It should equally  contain  the  '-refs'
option  specifying  where  the
resulting file with cross references should be searched or created. 
.I Informations about available options can be found in the 'xref' 
.I manual page ('xref.man' file). 

The '.xrefrc' file can contain 
comments starting by two slashes
followed by at least one blank character and ending by end of the line.

Xrefrc file can also contain specification of input source files via
execution of an extern command. A command enclosed inside two `` signs is
executed and the result of execution (from command's standard output)
is interpreted as a blank separated list of input files. For example,
if you wish to process  all files 
with .java suffix (not those with .c suffix) under a given
directory (say /usr/src/myproject), you can specify (under a Unix system)
input files as: `find /usr/src/myproject -name \\*.java -print`

Xrefrc file can also refer environment variables by enclosing variable name
into ${ and } signs (or between two % % signs). For example, you can specify
the position of a file 'toto' in your home directory by the 
string "${HOME}/toto". The variable can be either internal xref variable (which
must be set by the '-set <name> <value>' option), or any regular
(shell) environment variable, such as USER, HOME, CLASSPATH, etc. Also 
following predefined variables can be used in order to introduce problematic
characters into options: 'pc' for percent; 'dl' for dollar, 'dq' for 
double-quotes 'sp' for space and 'nl' for newline (even if space and 
newline are not really problematic).
A predefined variable __BASE
is referring to current project name.

In  order  to  handle multiple projects, '.xrefrc'
file  is  composed  from  separate
sections. Each section starts with a  section  marker  stating  the
project  name.  Options defined inside a section are taken into account
if 'xref' is invoked with the '-p'
option followed by the name of the section. 
In order to pass '-p' option to xref from Emacs/XEmacs
editors, you have to set current project name with
the 'M-x xref-project-set-active' function or by selecting it through
the 'Xref->Project->Set Active" menu item.

There can be options before the first section marker. Those options
(not belonging to any project) are common to all projects and are
processed everytime before project specific options.

Lets take for example the '.xrefrc' file defining two projects
('solver' and 'player'):

---------------------------------------------------------

[solver]        // first section
.br
-r /home/marian/solver 
.br
-r /home/marian/commons
.br
-I /usr/lib/gcc-lib/i386-redhat-linux/2.7.2.3/include
.br
-DTARGET=linux
.br
-refs /home/marian/XSrefs
.br
-htmlroot=/home/marian/HTML
.br

[player]          // second section
.br
-r /home/marian/player
.br
-classpath /usr/share/jdk/classes.zip:/java
.br
-refs /home/marian/Xplay
.br
-htmlroot=/home/marian/HTML

---------------------------------------------------------

Invocation via the 'xref -p solver' command will cause that
(recursively) all source files from the '/home/marian/solver' 
and '/home/marian/commons' directories will be cross-referenced.
Also the 'TARGET' macro will be defined having the value 'linux'. The 
resulting cross-references will be stored into the '/home/marian/XSrefs'
file. 

An invocation with the 'xref -p player' command will cause
that source files from the '/home/marian/player' directory will 
be processed with the classpath set to '/usr/share/jdk/classes.zip:/java'
and the resulting
cross-references will be stored in the '/home/marian/Xplay'
file.

An invocation with the 'xref -html -p player'
command causes that all files from the '/home/marian/player' 
directory will be processed
with the classpath set to '/usr/share/jdk/classes.zip:/java',
the input files will be
converted to the HTML format and the resulting HTML files
will be stored in a file hierarchy under the '/home/marian/HTML'
directory.

NOTE: If the '.xrefrc' file contains input file names, they are
processed only when invoked with '-p' or '-create' options on
the command line.

NOTE2:  It  is  strongly  recommended  to use all file names within 
the '.xrefrc' file with their full absolute paths.


.I AUTOMATIC PROJECT DETECTION

Xrefactory contains support for automatic project detection.
If you select  under (X)Emacs 'Xref->Project->Set Active' and then you chose 
"++ Automatic (directory dependent) ++" item, then 
Xrefactory tries to detect active project automatically inferring
it from the place where currently edited file is stored, i.e. from
its absolute path.

Automatic project detection interprets
project names as directories and a project is activated if
its name is a directory containing (directly or in several
subdirectory levels) the currently edited file (i.e. if project name
is a prefix of the absolute path of the currently edited file).
In case that project names overlap, then the most specific one (but still
covering input file) is selected. In case that no project can be activated
for currently editing file, then the last auto-detected project remains active.

For example, let's take the .xrefrc file:

---------------------------------------------------------

[/home/marian/solver]        // first section
.br
-I /usr/lib/gcc-lib/i386-redhat-linux/2.7.2.3/include
.br
-I /home/marian/include
.br
-I /mygroup/include
.br
-DTARGET=linux
.br
-refs /home/marian/XSrefs


[/home/marian/xref]          // second section
.br
-I /usr/lib/gcc-lib/i386-redhat-linux/2.7.2.3/include
.br
-I /home/marian/include
.br
-I /mygroup/include
.br
-DNODEBUG
.br
-refs /home/marian/XXrefs

---------------------------------------------------------

The first part of the file is triggered for all source files
with full path name starting by
/home/marian/solver
directory, the second part is triggered for  all
files under '/home/marian/xref' directory. 
For example if xref is invoked for
a  file,  saying  
/home/marian/xref/src/main.c
this  file  will  be
processed with options read from the second part.

When creating cross references 'xref' is not able to 
switch between different sections 
in one single run, continuing our example, if you type the 
command 'xref -r /home/marian' then all files will be
processed with options from one section of the '.xrefrc' file,
it is not defined which section will be taken.


.I SHARING SAME OPTIONS IN DIFFERENT PROJECTS

It is possible to define multiple projects sharing same options.
You can put several project names separated by ':' (';' under
MS-Windows) inside section marker, i.e. between [] brackets. 
Options following such section marker belong to all
mentioned projects. Autodetection of project works also for
projects sharing same options. Sharing of options is supposed
to be used mainly if your project directory
is accessible also through symbolic links. In this case
you can define original directory together with it its
name through symbolic link to share same options.
For example, if /dir2 is a symbolic link to /dir1, then you will
put your options into a project:

[/dir1:/dir2]
.br
  <projects option>



.SH MULTIPLE PRE-PROCESSOR PASSES


In C and C++ the same sources are often compiled multiple
times with only different initial macro settings. Usually the initial
macro setting is used to remove or to insert parts
of source code enclosed in #if-#else-#endif directives. 
In such case the '#if part' of code
is never compiled together with the '#else part' of the code. However,
for the purpose of cross referencing and (especially) for manipulations
like renaming, it is essential to put cross-references
from both parts together. For this reason
xref permits to define multiple passes through source code
collecting all references from those passes. Usually
one pass corresponds to one possible compilation of sources (for example for one possible
platform). Multiple
passes are specified at '.xrefrc' file level by using special
options '-pass<n>', where <n> is the pass number. If such an option
occurs it causes that all following options (except other '-pass'
option) are taken into account only when making the <n>-th pass through
source code. By default xref makes as many passes through source code
as is the greatest <n> used in '-pass' options. For example:


---------------------------------------------------------

[/home/marian/solve]
.br
-r /home/marian/solve
.br
-refs /home/marian/.xrefs/solve
.br
-pass1
.br
-DTARGET=linux
.br
-pass2
.br
-DTARGET=solaris

---------------------------------------------------------

This .xrefrc file causes that all source files
from the '/home/marian/solve' directory will be processed twice
first time with options:

.br
-r /home/marian/solve
.br
-refs /home/marian/.xrefs/solve
.br
-DTARGET=linux
.br

and second time with options:

.br
-r /home/marian/solve
.br
-refs /home/marian/.xrefs/solve
.br
-DTARGET=solaris

References from both passes will be collected and inserted into
the file '/home/marian/.xrefs/solve'.

You can use multiple passes in combination with 'recipe' files
by specifying different recipe files for different passes. For example,
the project:

[/home/marian/test]
.br
-refs /home/marian/.xrefs/test
.br
-pass1
.br
-recipe buildLinux.txt
.br
-pass2
.br
-recipe buildSolaris.txt

will process sources in two passes using respectively recipe
files 'buildLinux.txt' and 'buildSolaris.txt'.

.I NOTE: 
Multiple passes through sources will increase
the time of file processing and can
considerably slowdown on-line editing actions.

.SH "MORE INFO"
.RB http://www.xref-tech.com
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.RB xref(1),



